I’m just wondering Okay, why were bast shoes widespread in Russia? But in Ukraine they weren’t, that is, in Ukraine the trade was somehow different; the trade turns out to be skins; I can’t explain. I’ll explain; look, just the technologies for creating; state in the 15th century Yes, in the 14th century in the 16th Yes, it was a backward state Hello Good evening, I’m from the city of Khmelnitsky Where are you from? I’m from the city of Moscow Well, we’ve already talked to you, I remember you, only you weren’t in that kind of light Well, yes, it’s changing everything And this is you vyshyvanka vyshyvanka Yes, it is divided into men's and women's Yes, women's sleeves are also embroidered in women's Yes, whether it is red or not is not necessarily different in different regions in different ways The fact is that vyshyvanka is traditional clothing, it was not only in Ukraine, that is embroidered shirts in many nations of the USA Well, yes, this is also among the Slavic and Germanic ones and so on, that is, that is, it was like such authentic clothing and in every region, even in Ukraine for example there is Here is my Khmelnytsky region Maybe in the center of the Khmelnytsky region there is one the type of embroidery is usually different, as it was, yes, that is, there are some signs, it’s now on the Internet. I downloaded it there, it came out there conditionally, or I redrew it there earlier. Grandma, she talked with these grandmothers there, or a girl with girls. So she took patterns from them there. How embroider that’s all Well, that is, well, that is, it was just like someone alone invented it, then it diverged Well, yes, that is, it’s like this is an element of folk art Yes, it’s clear, but it was possible to conditionally determine how, well, that is, was it something that can be determined by the embroidered shirt, there are conditionally married women, unmarried men, and what else there are, there are some fables there, and so on. Well, by the embroidered shirt, I’m not sure that in the regions. So it was, that is, the ring is clear, and the ring is like, there was hair cut, which is Unmarried she had long hair and then, like, there’s something either loose or braided, so that’s what I was asking about, that is, that is, this is an external sign that like the guys are already there, she’s already busy, like already coming to her like don’t drive up, that’s kind of social, by the way, about the ring I’m not sure, I have a feeling that I think that not everyone could afford a ring Yes, I think so too, well, yes, because it’s Well, maybe some could But damn, It’s expensive, well let’s say I don’t think that jewelry was available in such quantities to the masses of the villagers. That is, if for example, there were merchants, some urban population could still somehow do it. Well, mass peasants. Well, I haven’t heard that rings were widespread at all. That is, this is usually something we are talking about emperors or something else. Let’s say hair is something that is available to everyone. Yes, they fired at them, they tied the braid, there were braids and it could be different in different regions. Yes, that is, there could be some differences between the beads be for example, that is, well, you need to be ethnographers in detail to understand Well, yes, this is an interesting topic. The fact is that tradition is such a thing that it can change from village to village. For example, uh, even in one region there may be that uh, traditions Vasil, how is this weddings, some in three villages, others are already in order, others there, you have to first stand there on a towel and then then And then there’s another and then Well, it seems to me that it was still possible somehow geographically Well, it was determined again there, how far I managed to get there and got there Well, transport And there was essentially no communication for a long time, so some new introductions they lived locally in their own, as it were, by the way, I very often hear about clothes from Ukrainians that in Ukraine we already wore leather clothes there, but you wear bast shoes, this is this a myth or everything if if if we look Yes, let’s take for example the 19th century shoes in Ukraine and even in Russia there So it is not But it’s just Ukraine It’s like it was in fact Well, we had the Principality of Novgorod and the Principality of Kie Accordingly, it’s what people, what century are you talking about? No, well, they walked in their elbows. I think centuries before the seventeenth, sixteenth, here’s your mustache, like this. Yes, they walked around in the sixteenth, and in the seventeenth, in bast shoes. Well, I don’t think that in Ukraine it was somehow different from that. Well, Yes Why sri we don’t have bast shoes even in folk culture or in songs or in images In general there are no bast shoes anywhere The thing is that look we have We we were actually part of the European cultural space, so to speak, that is, we were after after the Tatars attacked the Tatar-Mongols attacked Rus' Yes, and Rus' ceased to exist, then we entered the Grand Duchy of the Russians Lithuanian Samaitis so then into the Commonwealth Yeah, there is a parliament there is a parliament about how democratic the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth was horst I mean that I mean that this there was not an absolute monarchy Well, maybe that is, there is already a parliament just like in England, for example in England If we look at the parliament appeared, if I’m not mistaken, either in the 12th century or in the century when England is a little different, no. I mean that in Europe, yes as if the institutions of parliamentarism were born in the city, for example, the Magdeburg law, you know what it is? No, this is when the city was given the Magdeburg law, as if self-government, in fact, the city elected itself, as it were, a head, and the city also had some liberties, so if we take a map where the cities had the right yes, this is the part of Ukraine that was in the European in the European context in Russia there were no cities with Magdeburg law Well, because Russia is not, again, I’m very bad in history. Therefore, I most likely won’t even say anything here No, I’m just interested Okay Why bast shoes were common in Russia But in Ukraine they are not, that is, in Ukraine it’s somehow different trade in skins I can’t explain I’ll explain, look, just the technologies for creating I explain The fact is that Russia Yes, that’s where the Muscovite state was in the 10th century Yes in 14 in 16 Yes it was the state is really backward, look when the first higher educational institution appeared in Russia, you know, under Peter, that’s right, this St. Petersburg university Yes, in 1724 in 721 he organized, so to speak, the Russian Empire And in 724, if I’m not mistaken, this university appeared in the 10th century, beginning of the 10th century in Ukraine If we look at the Kiev-Mogila Academy - this is the 10th century, the Ostroh Academy - this is the 10th century, no. Well, again, these are Higher Educational Institutions, our higher educational institutions were the same monks, they also taught their own this this is a little bit again once again, that is, completely this is a slightly different context. That is, if we look, Yes, for example, in Europe, higher educational institutions are the University of Bologna, well, we just don’t, we don’t need a higher educational institution to make just shoes from skins. Look, this shows everything, a general background of development and technology. and education and all of it pulls everything along with it, so that is, Russia in, say, take there the same century X and everything on the territory of the Moscow region This is Yaroslavl everything there The wilds were there The wilds were yes, well, and everything around around yes, that is, it was well when we talk about the vast territory of Russia, I can’t help but be particularly surprised that they were deb Well, it’s just that the territory is so huge, it’s very difficult to develop in those and other European countries. Why look, if we take the territory of Ukraine, then for example from you from St. -Petersburg to some Yaroslavl will be even closer than ours, the extent of the whole of Ukraine, but Ukraine historically was in the European context for a very long time. That is, if we look on our territory there are still Roman denarii. Yes, they find it, that is, we constantly interacted with this part of the territory, but it conditionally controlled by someone, yes, she controlled the interaction, and therefore, even when she doesn’t, she controls the locals, for example, Kievan Rus there, they interact with Byzantium here Yes, a developed civilization Yes, with some formations in Europe, and so on, Russia, in essence, she was on the periphery of the civilized world That is, if we look Well, it was just independent, quite weak, maybe I don’t know how accurate this is about Why PT I, that’s how it goes, cut a hole in Europe That is, he taught somewhere the goal of Holland turned out and saw what education is What such And so on and everything is different, that is, in Russia, if we look, yes in Russia No, well, I most likely will most likely find other references to what some schools tried to do, tried to do something else, there just wasn’t enough effort, but he was just persistent That’s why he succeeded I don’t know Well, that is, look The point is that no matter how you look at it Yes, it was backward in the development of development education there, if we are talking about higher education, then it seems to me that this is conditionally a little bit not the same just no, look No, look, higher education also doesn’t come from anywhere, you can’t get a higher education in the Stone Age, for example, really in order for, say, higher educational institutions to appear there, for example, yes Or No, well, what happens in higher educational institutions no, look, I mean that in order to there were some needed basic ones needed many schools of basic education Yes there, that is, if you look then in Ukraine, take for example the same one there Bogdan Khmelnitsky Where he studied, he graduated from the Jesuit college, yes, that is, he owned uh several he studied there and Greek and Latin And so on, yes, that is, there are a lot of this Ukrainian nobility from those times. Yes, they were educated, they had contacts with Europe, and so on, this didn’t happen in Russia. Well, no, I, I can also say that a-a I mean, if we are talking about what happened after Peter, there were a lot of contacts with Europe because many simple Kings were conditionally related by blood to the Germans. Yes, and before Peter, well, again, all of them. Well, I actually don’t know, but again, talk about what only they were connected I think it’s strange I just no, well, I don’t understand why that’s what why to me that’s what it seems to me Peter did, so he built I assume that he most likely built a school in which he taught sailors how to make a ship, so he built it If you need to build a ship, this is one task, but another task is to build a boot like what’s the problem of making shoes from someone’s skin if Well, that is, they were able to make shoes from skin for a long time. Name it well Tell me What are your names, for example, traditional traditional shoes of yours How it’s called Russian Well, I can assume that bast shoes But look, that is, you couldn’t name it traditionally. For example, the Hutsuls have floors there, we have chobots there, there are bulls. There and so on. That’s there And you have bast shoes. Well, that’s how it works. That’s just from my ignorance of history, I would say e paws you know cart This is mine Well, try to take it Find some type of Russian folk shoes Well, I’m sure I’ll find something leather, I just don’t know I’m asking this more as a historian because I’m not a historian Me too don’t tell history, I’m not a historian either, look Take Take Take, for example, the works of art of those years Yes, the paintings of those years and look at how people are depicted in Russia okay Which Tell me These are the Russian folk dishes cabbage soup that’s not me yet I don’t want to I don’t want to say the most banal ones dishes that just came to my mind because I don’t know, take it Take Pushkin Yes, there is a fairy tale in this priest workers Balde and Pushkin or who he was yes In there, too, the floor would have been eaten, that is, it is actually described that well, that is, in Ukraine they still ate meat so I’m telling you, look, if you take Ukrainian dishes, there’s a huge Spectrum really uh look, let’s eat banosh This is what This is uh This kind of porridge Uh, yes, it’s made from flour Like it’s made with feta cheese, like it’s made with cheese and so on Yes, then borscht here’s VOM su this is this it’s not very far from katri borscht and cabbage soup - these are completely different things, yes, that is, vegetables also go into cabbage soup, and vegetables go into borscht, not really there. It’s [ __ ] - it’s essentially a stew like, well, just some water, they ate turnips, really, look this is a turnip and aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa one one, what is beet borscht made from? This is just grated turnips? Well, you have grated turnips in fairy tales. All you could name was shchit, yes, for example, in Ukraine, dumplings were made, dumplings are a traditional food. Well Dumplings are dough and inside there are potatoes, not necessarily potatoes, anything can be yes, but look dumplings like dumplings and so on. This is the bread you have. Yes, Delhi pirosh Well, pies, bread products were widespread even damn from there BC That is, just baked goods Bread Well, again, this has not gone very far forward and is different, that is, look, let’s say that, uh, with shoes, you couldn’t name it Yes, let’s call it that, for example, let’s look at intangible culture, uh, Russian folk dance, you can name it, I can name it gapa Arkan And so on But Russian folk dance, since I’m not historically knowledgeable about Russia or anyone else. Well, no, well, you’re sitting there streaming You obviously have preparation. And I, I came in, I came in in the evening, look, I’ll tell you, without preparation, in Ukraine you’ll come up at a bus stop to a man who smokes and ask what Ukrainian dance you know, go any one You ask what Ukrainian folk dance to That is, everyone knows it, that is, he is well known for you, the differential equation will solve it again Here is your national No one will say this And I’m asking no one at the entrance can’t name any folk songs or folk dances No, well, if it were interesting to me, I would google it, but to me it’s conditionally not not that interesting, well, that is, [ __ ], that is, it turns out that the Ukrainians told you that the Ukrainians already wore leather shoes, I I just don’t understand how this is possible Ro and the Russians are wearing bast shoes and instead of you no one knows that go to Google Yes When in Russia right now I’m interested by the way yes uh the traditional traditional shoes of Russia are felt boots, here are Valenki felt boots that are made from camel wool he writes felt boots shops Yes, in general, felt boots are also quite a complicated thing to make, but you don’t see felt boots - these are the traditional footwear of the people in Eurasia. That is, this is not in Russia. That is, this in Russia came from others, from felt boots, from the blood of Kozi, rabbit, camel wool and other animals so that is, again, felting wool is a rather complex process, not not Russia, that is, you see, it came to Russia from, of course, not Russia, then Well, not Russian, not Russian felt boots, not Russian, you see, it came from the Turkic peoples, you also have a balalaika, but if a balalaika, this is not a Russian national instrument Why is this a Turkic national instrument to whom does the word balalaika mean Vidish Lala Lala sounds like well, part of the song Lala not not not now Well, again, I don’t know, this is the etymology I watched it once Now I’m like that now no, just say about the fact that the Russian people borrowed something from abroad And therefore it is not Russian Well, in the case of Ukraine, which was very deeply adapted to Europe Well, this is a bit of a no No, why didn’t I understand yet, look That is, if we if we take from us, look we are interaction, we have a lot of things from European culture Yes, we have a lot of things from the Turkic culture. For example, sharvari, yes they deduce that it’s like sharvari from the clothes of the Turkic peoples. Yes, some words there Ataman are also like hetman, it seems like they were borrowed from the Turkic they also say there or Maidan Maidan is the Turkic word for square Well, I wouldn’t say that it’s very good again when Well, more precisely No, probably it’s good when nationalities seem to be intertwined, but when you can, everything that you can remember came only from someone- then Well, this is not very good Well, here you have the word money, from whom did the word money come? Well, probably re The fact is that in Tyur Yaka in Tata it is tenge, but among the Kazakhs tenge is called money, yes, that is, this Turkic word money came from the Turkic from the Tatar Mongol Well, maybe yes, that’s all. That is, if we play like this, the bandura is a Ukrainian instrument, it was not borrowed there either from Poland or from the Turks And so on, Ukrainian, again, I can remember the gusli, not the gusli, not at all this is a gusli not a bandura a gusli is not a bandura I can’t conventionally understand what a bandura is because it seems to me that it’s something very specific If you see what a bandura is Okay when when they say write to my Telegram straight away the VN axis and Popik is more and more respectfully YouTube took us through Scar Georg to your ban and there are so many videos that you don’t show people immediately show information about the stream. Therefore, for this purpose, we need Mali to write an operational link right away and while there in telegra okm video sche tezh tsikava and korisna information and we are sorry you trimati postiyny operational link nezalezhno in that chi show you the process YouTube Glory to Ukraine letter